`9.0.0-beta19 (2025-03-11) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/releases/tag/9.0.0-beta19>`_
============================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`!!! FEATURE: Dispatcher psr overhaul <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3311>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To ease the implementation of a custom controller now use a direct pattern of ``f(ActionRequest) => PsrResponseInterface``.
This is breaking if you implemented your own ``ControllerInterface`` or overwrote low level parts and methods of the ``ActionController``.


```php
class Dispatcher
{
    public function dispatch(ActionRequest $request): ResponseInterface;
}

interface ControllerInterface
{
    public function processRequest(ActionRequest $request): ResponseInterface;
}
```

Also, it's discouraged to manipulate ``$this->response`` in controllers (the ``ActionResponse`` is deprecated), although it's still supported in actions for now, please consider returning a new response instead.

<details>

<summary>
Explanation of the legacy MVC response object.
</summary>

Previously Flows MVC needed a single mutable response which was passed from dispatcher to controllers
and even further to the view and other places via the controller context: ``ControllerContext::getResponse()``.
This allowed to manipulate the response at every place.
With the dispatcher and controllers now directly returning a response, the mutability is no longer required.
Additionally, the abstraction offers naturally nothing, that cant be archived by the psr response,
as it directly translates to one: ``ActionResponse::buildHttpResponse()``
So you can and should use the immutable psr {@see ResponseInterface} instead where-ever possible.
For backwards compatibility, each controller will might now manage an own instance of the action response
via ``$this->response`` ``AbstractController::$response`` and pass it along to places.
But this behaviour is deprecated!
Instead, you can directly return a PSR repose ``\\GuzzleHttp\\Psr7\\Response`` from a controller:

```php
public function myAction()
{
    return (new Response(status: 200, body: $output))
        ->withAddedHeader('X-My-Header', 'foo');
}
```

</details>

Further the ``ForwardException`` does not extend the ``StopActionException`` anymore, meaning a try catch must be adjusted.


This is the main PR and it contains
- https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3232
- https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3294

Followup: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3301
Resolves: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3289

This change needs an accompanying adjustment to Neos to adjust the
PluginImplementation as well as Modules: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4738

**Upgrade instructions**

WIP Upgrade notes: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3232#issuecomment-1913166370



* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! FEATURE: update to `doctrine/dbal` version 3 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2637>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

update to doctrine/dbal version 3

* doctrines json_array type is deprecated, therefore flow_json_array is based off of json type now
* We use PSR6 caches now instead of the deprecated doctrine cache implementation 
* New Cache ``Flow_Persistence_Doctrine_Metadata`` for ORM class metadata
* ``Repository::findAllIterator`` directly returns an iterable, the ``Repository::iterate`` method is gone
* All doctrine migration commands have a new optional ``migration-folder`` argument that allows to overwrite the "platform name part" in migration resolving (e.g. "Mysql") as the resolving changed and we cannot be sure deducing it from the current connection will work long term for all cases. Currently MySQL/MariaDB (map to "Mysql"), PostgreSQL (maps to "Postgresql" and SQLite (maps to "Sqlite") all work fine automatically still.

Related Neos adjustments: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/5161

**Upgrade instructions**

We require now version 3 of ``doctrine/dbal`` but still operate ``doctrine/orm`` in version 2.
In case you depend on DBAL directly you should have a look into their upgrade instructions: https://www.doctrine-project.org/2020/11/17/dbal-3.0.0.html

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! FEATURE: `ViewInterface` returns PSR `StreamInterface` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3286>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Neos adjustments https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4856

- the views are now independent of the ``ControllerContext``
  - ``ViewInterface::setControllerContext`` is not part of the interface anymore and will only be called on demand
- the ``ActionRequest`` if necessary can be accessed via the variable "request" (like "settings")
- ``ViewInterface::canRender`` was required for fallbackviews which have been removed long ago, and so this artefact will be removed as well.
- !!! the return type is now forced to be either a ``ResponseInterface`` or a ``StreamInterface``. Simple strings must be wrapped in a psr stream! (see ``StreamFactoryTrait::createStream``)

Related to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3232

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`!!! FEATURE: WIP Dispatcher and controller return `ActionResponse` (simpler controller pattern) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3232>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

will not be merged directly into 9.0 but included in this mvc overhaul pr: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3311


This change needs an accompanying adjustment to Neos to adjust the
PluginImplementation as well as Modules.

~The new ``SimpleActionController`` gives you a direct and simple way to
route an ActionRequest and return an ActionReponse with nothing in
between. Routing should work just like with other ActionControllers.~

This is breaking if you implemented your own ControllerInterface
or overwrote or expect some of the api methods of the ActionController.
We now use a direct pattern of f(ActionRequest) => ActionResponse
in more places. Adjusting existing controllers should be easy though.
Additionally implementing your own dispatch loop (don't do this) will
need adjustments.

We discourage to manipulate ``$this->reponse`` in controllers,
although it should still work fine in actions for now, please consider
other options.

```php
class Dispatcher
{
    public function dispatch(ActionRequest $request): ActionResponse;
}
```

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add depth option to `configuration:show` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3224>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces similar to https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4619 a ``--depth`` option to ``flow configuration:show``. It helps when inspecting large nested configuration parts and for scouting out only the first few keys:

```
./flow configuration:show --path Neos.Neos.userInterface.inspector --depth 2
Configuration "Settings: Neos.Neos.userInterface.inspector":

dataTypes:
    string: ...
    integer: ...
    boolean: ...
    array: ...
    Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\ImageInterface: ...
    Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\Asset: ...
    array<Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\Asset>: ...
    DateTime: ...
    reference: ...
    references: ...
editors:
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/CodeEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/DateTimeEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/AssetEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/ImageEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/LinkEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/ReferencesEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/ReferenceEditor: ...
    Neos.Neos/Inspector/Editors/SelectBoxEditor: ...
```

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Introduce --help flag option for existing CLI commands <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3367>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Upgrade instructions**

_None_

**Review instructions**

This change introduces a new way of using the help function for existing Flow/Neos CLI commands.

Currently you always used:

```bash
./flow help user:create
```

With this change it is possible to use the new ``--help`` flag as an alternative at **the end** of a CLI command:

```bash
./flow user:create --help
```

But of course the first way will also still work!

### Demo

https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/assets/39345336/4f93f5cf-0435-4344-b37a-0a76b6df7824


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Introduce EEL tracer for handling Neos9 deprecations <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3386>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/5022

In todays weekly @bwaidelich and me discussed a concrete way how to log deprecations like ``node.indentifier`` in Neos 8.4 and 9.0

The idea is to add a tracer to eel, that will be implemented in Fusion. Technically we would need to add an abstraction to Neos.Fusion as well to not access the Node from there as this is architecturally illegal but to simplify the code and in light that this is just considered for temporary time we propose to implement it as such:

```php
<?php

namespace Neos\\Fusion\\Core;

use Neos\\Flow\\Annotations as Flow;
use Psr\\Log\\LoggerInterface;

final class Neos9RuntimeMigrationTracer implements EelInvocationTracerInterface
{
    /** @Flow\\Inject */
    protected LoggerInterface $logger;

    private const DEPRECATED_NODE_PROPERTIES = [
        'identifier' => true,
        'nodetype' => true,
        // ...
    ];

    public function __construct(
        private readonly string $eelExpression,
        private readonly bool $showMercy
    ) {
    }

    public function recordPropertyAccess(object $object, string $propertyName): void
    {
        if (
            $object instanceof \\Neos\\ContentRepository\\Domain\\Model\\Node
            && array_key_exists(strtolower($propertyName), self::DEPRECATED_NODE_PROPERTIES)
        ) {
            $this->logDeprecationOrThrowException(
                sprintf('"node.%s" is deprecated in "%s"', $propertyName, $this->eelExpression)
            );
        }
    }

    public function recordMethodCall(object $object, string $methodName): void
    {
    }

    private function logDeprecationOrThrowException(string $message): void
    {
        if ($this->showMercy) {
            $this->logger->debug($message);
        } else {
            throw new \\RuntimeException($message);
        }
    }
}
```


and instantiate this ``Neos9RuntimeMigrationTracer`` (name tbd) in ``\\Neos\\Fusion\\Core\\Runtime::evaluateEelExpression``

```diff
- return EelUtility::evaluateEelExpression($expression, $this->eelEvaluator, $contextVariables);
+ $tracer =.$this->settings['enableDeprecationTracer'] ? new Neos9RuntimeMigrationTracer($expression, $this->settings['strictEelMode'] ?? false) : null;
+ return EelUtility::evaluateEelExpression($expression, $this->eelEvaluator, $contextVariables, $tracer);
```



**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Eel``

`FEATURE: Support doctrine/dbal 2.x and 3.x <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3377>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Declares compatibility with ``doctrine/dbal`` 3.x (in addition to the already supported versions ``2.13+``) and adjusts affected code such that it works with both versions

**Upgrade instructions**

Any code that (heavily) uses Doctrine DBAL specifics should be checked for compatibility issues. Even if things still work, you may want to replace things deprecated in Doctrine DBAL 3. See https://www.doctrine-project.org/2020/11/17/dbal-3.0.0.html

One example: You need to replace, as the ``json_array`` type is removed in Doctrine DBAL 3.0.
```php
@ORM\\Column(type="json_array", nullable=true)
```
with
```php
@ORM\\Column(type="flow_json_array", nullable=true)
```

**Review instructions**

We allow now version 3 of ``doctrine/dbal`` but still only support ``doctrine/orm`` in version 2.

Related Neos 9 part https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2637

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Allow `PositionalArraySorter` to keep `null` values <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3350>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, the ``PositionalArraySorter`` removes all ``null`` values. This change makes this behavior an _option_ that can be passed to the constructor:

```php
(new PositionalArraySorter(['foo' => null]))->toArray(); // []
(new PositionalArraySorter(['foo' => null], removeNullValues: false))->toArray(); // ['foo']
```

Besides, this cleans up the code and tests

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Utility.Arrays``

`FEATURE: Introduce PHP 8.2 DNF type support <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3328>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Reflection Service now supports Disjunctive Normal Form (DNF) types for method arguments.

See: https://www.php.net/releases/8.2/en.php#dnf_types

* Resolves: `#3026 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3026>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Consider PHP attributes in proxy method building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3265>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added support for preserving PHP 8 attributes in generated proxy class methods. This feature enables correct argument passing from attributes to proxied methods which allows developers to use attributes instead of annotations in most cases.

* Resolves: `#3075 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3075>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add `Flow\InjectCache` Attribute / Annotation for property injection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3244>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In many cases an ``Objects.yaml`` is created just to inject caches which can feel a bit cumbersome as one already had specified the cache in ``Caches.yaml``.

To address this the new ``@Flow\\InjectCache`` annotation allows to assign a cache frontend of a configured cache directly to a property without having to configure the ``Objects.yaml`` at all.

```php
    #[Flow\\InjectCache(identifier: 'Flow_Mvc_Routing_Resolve')]
    protected VariableFrontend $cache;
```


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: introduce `UriHelper` to work with query parameters <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3316>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FYI: This pr was refactored again via https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3336

While working on https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2744 and also https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4552 we always came to the conclusion that the ``$queryParameters`` merging of the psr uri is limited.

This introduces a utility to do this:


```php
UriHelper::uriWithAdditionalQueryParameters($this->someUriBuilder->uriFor(...), ['q' => 'search term']);
```

and allows us to remove any $queryParam logic from the uribuilder(s)

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add `Flow\Route` Attribute/Annotation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3325>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``Flow\\Route`` attribute allows to define routes directly on the affected method. This allows to avoid dealing with Routes.yaml in projects in simple cases where is sometimes is annoying to look up the exact syntax for that.

Usage:

```php
use Neos\\Flow\\Mvc\\Controller\\ActionController;
use Neos\\Flow\\Annotations as Flow;

class ExampleController extends ActionController
{
    #[Flow\\Route(uriPattern:'my/path', httpMethods: ['GET'])]
    public function someAction(): void
    {
    }

    #[Flow\\Route(uriPattern:'my/other/b-path', defaults: ['test' => 'b'])]
    #[Flow\\Route(uriPattern:'my/other/c-path', defaults: ['test' => 'c'])]
    public function otherAction(string $test): void
    {
    }
}
```

To use annotation routes packages have to register the ``AttributeRoutesProviderFactory`` in ``Neos.Flow.mvc.routes`` with Controller classNames or patterns.

Settings.yaml:
```yaml
Neos:
  Flow:
    mvc:
      routes:
        Vendor.Example.attributes:
          position: 'before Neos.Neos'
          providerFactory: \\Neos\\Flow\\Mvc\\Routing\\AttributeRoutesProviderFactory
          providerOptions:
            classNames:
              - Vendor\\Example\\Controller\\ExampleController
```

This pr also adds the general option to register ``provider`` and ``providerOptions`` in  the Setting ``Neos.Flow.mvc.routes`` which was required obviously.

The package: ``WebSupply.RouteAnnotation`` by @sorenmalling implemented similar ideas earlier.

* Resolves: `#2059 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2059>`_

**Upgrade instructions**

**Review instructions**

Alsow see: `#3324 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3324>`_resolving #2060, both solutions ideally would work hand in hand


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: InjectConfiguration for constructor arguments <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3086>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow now supports InjectConfiguration attributes for constructor arguments which allows for injecting configuration, such as settings, via the constructor. Compared to property injection, constructor injection results in more portable and better testable code.

* Resolves: `#3077 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3077>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Introduce PHP 8.2 DNF type support <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3328>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Reflection Service now supports Disjunctive Normal Form (DNF) types for method arguments.

See: https://www.php.net/releases/8.2/en.php#dnf_types

* Resolves: `#3026 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3026>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Separate RouteConfiguration from Router <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2970>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This separates the Routes configuration from the router by introducing a ``RoutesProviderInterface`` which will be used by the router implementation together with a ``ConfigurationRoutesProvider`` that implements the current configuration from Routes.yaml. 

Switching out the internal implementation of the ``RoutesProviderInterface`` can be done via Objects.yaml to add custom behaviour. But be aware that this is not covered by our api promises. All Implementations should include the routes provided by the ``ConfigurationRoutesProvider``.

This change also makes sure, that the RouteCommandController uses the current ``RoutesProviderInterface`` implementation, instead of hard coded Flow router. That ensures that all Routes available to the router are now also visible to route cli-commands.

* Fixes: `#2948 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2948>`_

**Upgrade instructions**

This change removes the methods ``getRoutes`` and ``addRoute`` from the Router that previously were mainly used in functional-tests as they were never part of the Router Interface. 

To adjust for that the existing utility ``FunctionalTestCase->registerRoute`` method has to be used instead of ``FunctionalTestCase->router->addRoute``.

The method ``Router::setRoutesConfiguration``, which was also previously used for internal testing has been removed without official replacement. You _could_ technically inject a custom routes provider to do so but be aware that this is internal behaviour.

**Review instructions**

Run the ./flow routing:list command - you will see the list as expected


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Consider PHP attributes in proxy method building <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3265>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added support for preserving PHP 8 attributes in generated proxy class methods. This feature enables correct argument passing from attributes to proxied methods which allows developers to use attributes instead of annotations in most cases.

* Resolves: `#3075 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3075>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add `Flow\InjectCache` Attribute / Annotation for property injection <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3244>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In many cases an ``Objects.yaml`` is created just to inject caches which can feel a bit cumbersome as one already had specified the cache in ``Caches.yaml``.

To address this the new ``@Flow\\InjectCache`` annotation allows to assign a cache frontend of a configured cache directly to a property without having to configure the ``Objects.yaml`` at all.

```php
    #[Flow\\InjectCache(identifier: 'Flow_Mvc_Routing_Resolve')]
    protected VariableFrontend $cache;
```


* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add more information for object arguments in debugging <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3211>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For stacktraces in exceptions and logs we now render some representation of content for objects to ease debugging with DTOs.

Specifically we will try to obtain a string representation for such an object by using either in this order:

- a string cast if __toString() is available
- json_encode if it is JsonSerializable
- json_encode on the array of public properties

For readability json_encode will be limited to the first level, also all of those string representations will be cut off after 100 characters.

If any of those options works we will also shorten the className to avoid this output becoming overly long.

Note that we use JSON_PARTIAL_OUTPUT_ON_ERROR to make sure some output is provided. This might lead to partial or weird outputs depending on the object structure, but might still provide pointers for debugging.

* Fixes: `#3165 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3165>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`9.0 FEATURE: Add `unique` flowQuery operation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3102>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This operation applies ``array_unique`` to the current flowQuery context.

While the same could previously achieved via ``Array.unique()`` the flow query operation can be placed in an operation chain without extra wrapping.

**Review instructions**

There is also a node specific implementation of the ``unique`` operation in https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4355

I know the php code looks oldish but the style is in line with the other flowQuery operations around. 


* Packages: ``Eel``

`FEATURE: Add `getAccessorByPath` to `Neos\Utility\Arrays` for type safe accessing of array values <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3149>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_**Please note that this is an experimental feature and the API is not stable yet.**_

The array utility allows to create a type safe accessor via ``Arrays::getAccessorByPath($arrayValue, 'your.path')``. The accessor provides the following methods that will either return the requested type or throw a ``\\UnexpectedValueException``.  

* ``int(): int``
* ``float(): float``
* ``number(): int|float``
* ``string(): string``
* ``classString(): string`` - with annotation for class-string
* ``array(): array``
* ``instanceOf(string $className): object`` - with annotation for dynamic type
* ``intOrNull(): ?int``
* ``floatOrNull(): ?float``
* ``numberOrNull(): null|int|float``
* ``stringOrNull(): ?string``
* ``classStringOrNull(): ?string`` - with annotation for class-string | null
* ``arrayOrNull(): ?array``
* ``instanceOfOrNull(string $className): ?object`` - with annotation for dynamic type | null

This will allow to write code that accesses settings via pathes without checking every level for existence still beeing type safe and accessible for static analysis.

This can be used together with settingInjection.

```php
public function injectSettings(array $settings): void
{
   $this->limit = Arrays::getAccessorByPath($settings, 'limit')->intOrNull();
}
```

* Resolves: `#3164 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3164>`_

**Review instructions**

It may look inefficient to manually throw TypeErrors that in many cases would be thrown automatically because of the declared return types. However this is not a performance issue as those are never on the happy-path and the created TypeError provides additional informations to help understand and fix problems faster.

Inspired by https://github.com/PackageFactory/extractor


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Utility.Arrays``

`FEATURE: Exclude classes from constructor autowiring <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3070>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Classes can now explicitly be excluded from constructor autowiring through a new setting.

The setting accepts an array of fully qualified class names, each class name being a regular expression. Classes of scope prototype which expect objects to be passed to their constructor are usually considered for autowiring which results in a proxy class being generated.

This option allows to exclude classes from this process. This is useful for classes like data transfer objects, read models, commands, events and value objects which usually don't rely on dependency injection.

Flow cannot reliably detect weather a prototype class depends on autowiring for constructor arguments or not. Use this option to optimize your application to avoid the small but measurable overhead of proxy generation for those kinds of classes.

Note that if there are other reasons than constructor injection which require a proxy class to be generated, the proxy class will be generated no matter what.

This change partly reverts `#3050 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3050>`_because now proxy classes _are_ generated for prototype classes by default. Otherwise a lot of existing Flow applications would not work correctly anymore.

resolves: #3049

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Replace self with static in proxy classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3074>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Factory methods which use code like new self() for creating a new instance are now handled correctly in proxy classes. The compiler automatically replaces "self" keywords with "static" in the rendered proxy class file to make this possible.

This implementation has not been optimized for performance.

* Resolves: `#3059 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3059>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Support private constructors in proxy classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3072>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow now can correctly build proxy classes for classes with private constructors. Previously, such classes caused errors and proxy class building had to be disabled with the ``Proxy(false)`` annotation. Now classes with private constructors can take advantage of setter and property injection and are considered for advices through the AOP framework.

* Resolves: `#3058 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3058>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`FEATURE: Add support for readonly classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3051>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow now respects readonly classes during proxy class building and makes sure that proxy classes are readonly as well.

resolves: #3025

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!!BUGFIX: Make any exception handable in renderingGroups by statusCode <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1514>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before only exceptions that derive from FlowException could be handled with renderingGroups. This sets the status code for unknown exceptions to 500, so they will match a ``matchingStatusCodes`` configuration.
Therefore a configuration like this will now also render generic exceptions as if they were FlowExceptions with a status code of 500:
```yaml
Neos:
  Flow:
    error:
      exceptionHandler:
        renderingGroups:

          'allExceptions':
            matchingStatusCodes: [500]
            options:
              templatePathAndFilename: 'some-path'
```

Note: This is slightly breaking if you handled Flow Exceptions differently than generic exceptions. If you do want to render Flow exceptions differently then generic exceptions, the way to do this is:

```yaml
Neos:
  Flow:
    error:
      exceptionHandler:
        renderingGroups:

          'flowExceptions':
            matchingExceptionClassNames: ['FlowException']
            options:
              templatePathAndFilename: 'some-path'

          'notFound':
            matchingStatusCodes: [404]
            options:
              templatePathAndFilename: 'specific-code-path'

          'otherExceptions':
            matchingExceptionClassNames: ['Exception']
            options:
              templatePathAndFilename: 'some-other-path'
```

The first matching group will be used.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: RuntimeSequenceHttpRequestHandler::$httpRequest must not be accessed before initialization <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3454>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

if in testing context the throwable storage is invoked the default  $requestInformationRenderer will cause ``getHttpRequest`` to be called

Now there is a null check, but its useless with php strict defined properties:

Typed property Neos\\Flow\\Testing\\RequestHandler\\RuntimeSequenceHttpRequestHandler::$httpRequest must not be accessed before initialization

Either we must use ``isset`` or default initialise the value to ``null``

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Avoid type error during `publishFile()` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3449>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This avoids an error when the file cannot be opened or writing. That would result in
``stream_copy_to_stream(): Argument ``#2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2>``_($to) must be of type resource, bool given``
for recent PHP versions.

**Review instructions**

Probably a bit tricky, but you need to create a scenario, where the target file already
exists and cannot be written to.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Drop use of `E_STRICT` to fix PHP 8.4 deprecation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3437>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The use of ``E_STRICT`` is deprecated as of PHP 8.4, so this fixes deprecation warnings. Furthermore, the constant is no longer useful…

In PHP 5.4, the functionality of ``E_STRICT`` was incorporated into ``E_ALL``, meaning strict standards notices are included in the ``E_ALL`` error level. As a result, there is no need to use ``E_STRICT`` separately starting with PHP 5.4. This change is documented in the PHP manual under the migration guide for PHP 7.0, which states:

> All of the E_STRICT notices have been reclassified to other levels.
> The E_STRICT constant is retained, so calls like
> ``error_reporting(E_ALL|E_STRICT)`` will not cause an error.

(see https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration70.incompatible)


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Silence warning in `readCacheFile()` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3438>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

readCacheFile() in SimpleFileBackend does fopen(). It wraps it into a try-catch clause and checks the result, but it still produces a warning if the file does not exist:

``Warning: fopen(/application/Data/Temporary/…): Failed to open stream: No such file or directory``

The only way to suppress that warning is to use the shut-up operator (``@``) in this place. Given that everything that can go wrong here is taken care of, I think this is fine.


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Cache``

`BUGFIX: Make debugger more robust <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3388>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevent exception inception while trying to render debug outputs.

This can happen when complex objects are encountered in stacktraces and we try to render a string representation. Example would be ``LazyProps`` in Fusion which can easily throw while evaluating. This is especially nasty as it leads to recursions if the original error being rendered occurred while trying to render this same LazyProps object, thus triggering the error handling again.

The suggested fix covers the whole argument rendering in a try/catch block, as this makes the code even more unreadable it was refactored to separate methods.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix use of `$this->response->set...` in controllers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3407>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Regression from https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3311


And remove declaration of obsolete $dispatched state (followup to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3294)


**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Static compile attribute routes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3401>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The necessary reflection data used to build the routes from attributes is not available at (Production) runtime. This is an issue in itself but not trivial to fix, therefore we fix this here by using the ``CompileStatic`` attribute to bring the necessary data over from compile time.

* Fixes: `#3400 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3400>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Fix support for typo3fluid/fluid 2.15 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3390>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts tests that mocked ``AbstractViewHelper::renderChildren()`` that is no longer invoked with version 2.15

* Fixes: `#3389 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3389>`_

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Do proper resolving of FusionPathProxy <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3358>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using ``{image.title}`` in Fluid when the image is a ``FusionPathProxy`` does not work. The result is simply ``null`` instead of the image title.

This change fixes that by moving more code down into our own custom ``TemplateVariableContainer`` from the ``StandardVariableProvider``.

Fixes `#3357 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3357>`_

**Review instructions**

The fixed issue contains instructions on how to reproduce this.


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`BUGFIX: Adjust to Php 83 `get_parent_class` deprecation <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3351>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

see https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.get-parent-class.php

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Make new object debug output more robust <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3233>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unfortunately magic methods are tricky and __toString is no exception, a check if it's callable can result in true if the magic __call method is implemented but then the results of this call are completely undefined and therefore catching errors and continuing with other options is a good safeguard here.

Noticed this when I had an error in the ``Mvc\\Arguments`` implementation which declares __call.

Followup to https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3211

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Use correct exception class <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3209>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix the use of an exception class that is no longer where it was.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Replacement proxy methods rendered again <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3101>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a bug introduced in d939e6b8 switching to laminuas-code. A proxy method can replace the full body of an existing method or even be a fully new method, in which case only ``body`` will be set in the proxy method. We still want those to be generated. This for example currently breaks the CompileStatic feature, as those methods do not get rendered anymore resulting in worse performance in Production context compared to before.

This fix renders a proxy method also when a body was set for it, but still skips it if neither pre/post nor body is set.

It also enabled CompileStatic in Testing Context so that it is testable and adds a test to make sure it works as intended.

* Fixes: `#3099 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3099>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Remove injected properties before serialization <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3067>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a regression introduced recently which resulted in serialization errors if the object to be serialized contained properties which were previously injected.

* Resolves: `#3066 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3066>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Support mixed return type in proxied methods <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3065>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow's proxy class building now supports mixed return types for methods.

This change merely adds a test which proves that the feature is working. The actual implementation was part of https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3042.

resolves: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2899

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Union types in proxy classes <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3057>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow's proxy class building now supports union types in method signatures.

This change merely adds a test which proves that the feature is working. The actual implementation was part of #3042.

resolves: #2941

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Create serialization code for transient properties <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3063>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to a recent optimization, Flow was not generating ``__sleep()`` methods for classes which are not either entities or were configured with a session scope. This led to errors in classes which were using the ``@Transient`` annotation to exclude certain properties from serialization. Therefore, Flow now also generates proxy classes with ``__sleep()`` methods if the original class contains such annotations.

* Resolves: `#3062 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3062>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Skip proxy for optional straight values <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3052>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a promoted property was an optional straight value, the proxy class builder decided to create a proxy class because it could be a straight value configured in the object configuration via Objects.yaml. Flow now checks the value of the given argument and only triggers proxy class building if the argument is not null. That way, Flow will not build useless proxies for typical read models which expect a mix of objects and straight values in their constructor.

related: `#1539 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1539>`_
related: `#3049 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3049>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`BUGFIX: Move access to objectAccess of TemplateObjectAccessInterface into getByPath <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3041>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

... as accessors are not used anymore for variable provider within fluid, starting v2.8.0.

Due to the missing accessors the ``objectAccess`` of ``TemplateObjectAccessInterface`` didn't get called anymore, so the result of the ``getByPath`` method was an object of ``FusionPathProxy`` instead of an rendered string.

See: 
https://github.com/TYPO3/Fluid/compare/2.7.4...2.8.0#diff-`a0aa72aa19d9eb57cdb9a4dcd344c3706d75ae7c <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/a0aa72aa19d9eb57cdb9a4dcd344c3706d75ae7c>`_a408286f91a846e495b3c766L122
https://github.com/TYPO3/Fluid/compare/2.7.4...2.8.0#diff-`a0aa72aa19d9eb57cdb9a4dcd344c3706d75ae7c <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/a0aa72aa19d9eb57cdb9a4dcd344c3706d75ae7c>`_a408286f91a846e495b3c766L341
https://github.com/TYPO3/Fluid/compare/2.7.4...2.8.0#diff-`a0aa72aa19d9eb57cdb9a4dcd344c3706d75ae7c <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/a0aa72aa19d9eb57cdb9a4dcd344c3706d75ae7c>`_a408286f91a846e495b3c766L312


* Packages: ``FluidAdaptor``

`!!! TASK: Decouple routing from persistence manager <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3450>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Upgrade instructions*

In case you rely on ``$this->persistenceManager`` in your ``ActionController`` and didnt declare the ``PersistenceManagerInterface`` explicitly you have to do so now:

```php
/**
 * @Flow\\Inject
 * @var PersistenceManagerInterface
 */
protected $persistenceManager;
```

The as "api" declared methods in the ``PersistenceManagerInterface`` have been removed because they were only build for the usecase in routing and never used elsewhere: ``PersistenceManagerInterface::convertObjectToIdentityArray`` ``PersistenceManagerInterface::convertObjectsToIdentityArrays``

-----------------------

Reforms ``PersistenceManager::convertObjectToIdentityArray`` introduced in 2011 with: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/`30aafa3d93f0b3091875cf76fcff09f70bde2508 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/30aafa3d93f0b3091875cf76fcff09f70bde2508>`_

Allows to implement https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/5069. Because https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3183 introduced a strict ``array`` return type which forces us to convert nodes to an array with a unnecessary key and _then_ the node address. 

Resolves partly the Neos dilemma: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/5069 so Neos could ship their own ``RouteValuesNormalizer`` like this:

```php
final readonly NodeIdentityConverterAspect implements RouteValuesNormalizer
{
    public function __construct(
        private FlowPersistenceRouteValuesNormalizer $flowPersistenceRouteValuesNormalizer
    ) {
    }

    public function normalizeObjects(array $array): array
    {
        foreach ($array as $key => $value) {
            if ($value instanceof Node) {
                $array[$key] = NodeAddress::fromNode($value)->toJson();
            }
        }
        return $this->flowPersistenceRouteValuesNormalizer->normalizeObjects($array);
    }
}
```

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Followup #3443 remove dead package freezing API's <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3446>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Followup to `#3443 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3443>`_removes dead package freezing API's

Also removes declarations for not needed cache configurations:

- Flow_Reflection_Status
- Flow_Reflection_CompiletimeData

if you have any custom declaration for these please remove them.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!!TASK: Reduce complexity of ReflectionService <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3443>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change tackles some problems within the reflection service that stem from historically increasing complexity due to various caching mechanisms depending on application context and compile time status.

The aim was to cut down on this complexity, while ensuring that all existing use-cases continue working as intended.

This ultimately also fixes issue `#3402 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3402>`_by providing the same reflection data across all possible contexts.

A few features and caches got deprecated with this change and could be breaking in the rare case you used the freeze package api in your code:

The entire concept of freezing a package is deprecated

What remains are the commands in the package controller, which are now all no-ops and deprecated to be removed with 9.0. This is to ensure deployment pipelines possibly calling freeze commands do not break with the 8.4 update.

Additionally the single method ``PackageManager::isPackageFrozen`` remains, while the rest was removed. None of the methods was ever api and it seems unlikely that someone used them in user-land code. ``isPackageFrozen`` however is at the very least used in Framework and Neos code and therefore remains until 9.0, but will now return false for every package.

Caches deprecated and unused

With the simplification two caches are no longer needed, both are still declared so that possibly existing cache configuration in user projects doesn't error, but both

``Flow_Reflection_Status``

and

``Flow_Reflection_CompiletimeData``

will no longer be used and any content can be removed.

The only reflection cache is now ``Flow_Reflection_RuntimeData``, which makes the name somewhat deceptive as it is also used in compile time. To avoid backwards compatibility issues however it makes sense to keep the name for the foreseeable future.

Quick performance comparisons suggest that especially the initial compile from empty cache benefits from this change. Reflection updates in Development context afterwards seem to be on par with the existing code base.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Remove dispatched state from ActionRequest <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3301>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> I will dig a bit into history as I guess something (that obviously no one cares about) was lost in the PSR HTTP refactoring. I think (as we can see in the dispatch loop) there was a possibility before for a controller to gain control but decide it does not finally dispatch the request and thus the dispatch loop would continue and try to find another controller to take care, so it was the controllers responsibility to set this, but I am not sure what conditions it previously attached to it being dispatched.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: `Mvc\Dispatcher::afterControllerInvocation` will not be called for CLI requests anymore. <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3296>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reverts that the cli dispatcher invokes the mvc slots dispatcher slots with cli requests.

When there was one dispatcher the slot ``afterControllerInvocation`` was fired for both cli and web request. (Seemingly only ever at Runtime?)

Then with the split of web and cli dispatchers this legacy layer was introduced:

https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/`cf55b180c953de8d02adb680216f5c24a3524237 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/cf55b180c953de8d02adb680216f5c24a3524237>``_#diff-``2c9408e74a8ac737f84468e74c23956d2057e641 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/2c9408e74a8ac737f84468e74c23956d2057e641>`_96e66b97281905d8697226ca

Now during a short time the ``Mvc\\Dispatcher::afterControllerInvocation`` signal was now also called for cli request during compile time.

With this bugfix https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2529 the initial behaviour was restored again. For cli request it will only fire at runtime, and web request are either way always runtime.

This breaking change cleans up the legacy layer.

- The original signals ``Mvc\\Dispatcher`` ``'afterControllerInvocation'`` and ``'beforeControllerInvocation'``
  Will be only invoked for action requests.
They still only fire at runtime, as web requests happen at runtime.

- The with Flow 6.0 introduced signals ``Cli\\Dispatcher`` ``'afterControllerInvocation'`` and ``'beforeControllerInvocation'``
  Will still be only invoked for cli requests.
Will still fired either at compile or runtime, as cli requests can happen always.

**Upgrade instructions**

In case you used the MVC signals and relied on it to also be invoked for CliRequest, you need to connect as well to the respective Cli\\Dispatcher signal. But keep in mind that you might need to check if flow is in runtime as this signal will be also fired for compile time unlike the mvc signal before.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!!TASK: Deprecate outdated doctrine functionality <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3379>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In preparation of Flow 9 we deprecate some functionality we expose but that was deprecated in doctrine already, so we will remove it.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Deprecate concepts `addQueryString` and `argumentsToBeExcludedFromQueryString` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3352>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

in flows uri building APIs

See discussion at https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/5076

Affected Fluid viewhelpers
- ``<f:form />``
- ``<f:link.action />``
- ``<f:uri.action />``

Affected PHP APIs
- ``UriBuilder::setAddQueryString``
- ``UriBuilder::setArgumentsToBeExcludedFromQueryString``

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`!!! TASK: Refactor uri helpers <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3336>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* See: `#3316 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3316>`_

**Upgrade instructions**

The following methods were removed from the ``UriHelper`` as they are obsolete and not used.
Its unlikely that the functionality is known and simple to implement yourself.
- ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::getUsername``
- ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::getPassword``
- ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::parseQueryIntoArguments``

The method ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::uriWithArguments`` was renamed to ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::uriWithQueryParameters`` to distinct between route values and query parameters which are not the same.
Also it will encode the query parameters after `PHP_QUERY_RFC1738 <https://www.php.net/manual/de/url.constants.php#constant.php-query-rfc1738>`_.

**Review instructions**

The pr `#3316 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3316>`_introduced a new uri helper while we already had one actually. This pr combines the two and cleans things up.

To ensure the logic of ``uriWithAdditionalQueryParameters`` is not duplicated and possibly handled elsewhere differently the helper is now also used internally by the uriConstraints.

Also the method has been renamed to better fit the previous sibling ``uriWithArguments``.

The removed methods are dead code and previously introduced once with Flow 5.1: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/`85408589462b7530180d3dce2858500f29f94bbe <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/85408589462b7530180d3dce2858500f29f94bbe>`_
As part of replacements for the old (now removed) flow Uri implementation:

``Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Uri::getUsername`` -> ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::getUsername``
``Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Uri::getPassword`` -> ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::getPassword``
``Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Uri::getArguments`` -> ``\\Neos\\Flow\\Http\\Helper\\UriHelper::parseQueryIntoArguments``

So maybe these methods _are_ known in fact and it would be a bit mean to remove them just because i felt like it and we dont use / test them?


* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Modernize and clean up session-related code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3330>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The session-related code in Flow was updated to use modern PHP features and attributes. Classes are also declared as strict and a few minor bugs which surfaced due to type strictness were fixed along the way.

This change is breaking for anyone who implemented their own implementation of ``SessionInterface`` or ``SessionManagerInterface``because parameter and return types were added. It's very easy to solve though.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Deprecate and replace `ActionResponse` in dispatcher <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3294>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#3289 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3289>`_ (Contains discussion about the reasoning).

will not be merged directly into 9.0 but included in this mvc overhaul pr: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3311

_(original pr in christians fork https://github.com/kitsunet/flow-development-collection/pull/5)_


```php
class Dispatcher
{
    public function dispatch(ActionRequest $request): ResponseInterface;
}
```

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`!!! TASK: Make `QueryInterface::logicalAnd` variadic <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3276>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_If_ someone implemented the ``QueryInterface``, the implementation must now use conventional variadic parameters instead of legacy ``func_get_args``

This allows phpstan to understand the code ;)

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Fix `TextIterator::following` and `preceding` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3278>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Accidentally they have been typed wrongly. First in phpdoc, which is harmless and later actual types introduced in https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/`70b671228ee4f66c54fb7fbfa390aac12b5a71c5 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/70b671228ee4f66c54fb7fbfa390aac12b5a71c5>``_#diff-``947f5937b1e181a6e4ae7bb23349d22d839b073a <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/947f5937b1e181a6e4ae7bb23349d22d839b073a>`_07104b884c08583cc12f63df enforced that.

The tests didnt fail, because as strict types were not enabled php just cast the int's to string.

The tests, also casting when using assertEquals, didnt notice that.


This is required in preparation for https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3261

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Utility.Unicode``

`!!! TASK: Introduce `TargetInterface::onPublish` callback <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3229>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently every implementation of the ``TargetInterface::publishCollection`` should declare a second parameter: ``callable $callback = null`` which not part of the interface, but used by convention. This pattern causes trouble when using phpstan and also it’s not best practice. To improve this code and preserve the usecase partially the interface now allows to register ``onPublish`` callbacks, which should be called when ``publishCollection`` is run:

```php
interface TargetInterface
{
     // ...

     /**
      * @param \\Closure(int $iteration): void $callback Function called after each resource publishing
      */
     public function onPublish(\\Closure $callback): void;
}
```

**Upgrade instructions**

In case you are using the callback, you need to adjust the calling side:

```diff
- $fileSystemTarget->publishCollection($staticCollection, $myPublicationCallback);
+ $fileSystemTarget->onPublish($myPublicationCallback);
+ $fileSystemTarget->publishCollection($staticCollection);
```

Also note that the second parameter ``$object`` will not be passed anymore. The callback only contains the ``$iteration`` as one and only parameter.

Additionally the method ``iterate(…)`` in the ``ResourceRepository`` has been removed, replace it by iterating over the result of ``findAllIterator()`` directly.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Modernized code style in ReflectionService <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2914>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Code in the reflection service was adjusted to the current code style best practices. 

The method arguments in the Reflection Service are now strictly typed. Therefore, third-party code which relied on loose types and passes invalid types, need to be adjusted. Tests in the Flow package were adjusted were necessary.

As part of the clean up, the setStatusCache() method in ReflectionService was fixed which used a wrong order of parameters in its is_callable() call.

Preparation for #2913

* Packages: ``Flow``

`!!! TASK: Require PHP 8.2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3040>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The minimum requirement for the Flow Framework, including all packages of its distribution, was raised to PHP 8.2.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Utility.ObjectHandling``

`TASK: Add documentation how work with psr responses in controller <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3444>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There was some confusion how to replace ``$this->response`` when modifying view results.

The suggested pattern now is more explicit instead of providing any form of helper like:

```php
abstract class ResponseInformationHelper
{
    public static function response(Response|StreamInterface $response): Response
    {
        return $response instanceof Response ? $response : new Response(body: $response);
    }
}
```

Instead this will be written explicitly:

```php
$response = $this->view->render();
if (!$response instanceof Response) {
    $response = new Response(body: $response);
}
return $response
    ->withHeader('My-Header', 'foo');
```

Also this change inlines ``ActionController::renderView`` as the method signature is now really odd and unusable or understandable from the outside. ``$this->view`` should instead be used instead like when also assigning variables.


Related changes that lead to the new patterns:

- https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3286
- https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3311


**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Cosmetic followup for #3443 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3447>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

During the review of `#3443 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3443>`_I couldn't help to do a little cleaning myself :D 🧹 


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Handle non-integer error codes in throwabe FileStorage <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3416>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This will no longer swallow certain error codes but instead emit them in the message.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix override of runBare() in functional test <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3421>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of PHPUnit 11 ``runBare()`` is a ``final`` method.

This was written ages ago by Sebastian Kurfürst, who recently said:

> IMHO we wanted to run each test twice to run it without cache and
> then with cache. But it seems this was broken anyways since a long
> time – so we can drop it


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Run pipeline also in PHP 8.4 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3436>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Flow`` ``.github``

`TASK: Correctly mark nullable method parameters as nullable <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3433>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Follow up of https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3429 for 9.0 branch after upmerges

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix reflection test <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3434>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With 9.0 we get more data from ``ReflectionService::getMethodParameters`` so the test needs to get adapted.

See: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3086

* Packages: ``Cache`` ``Error.Messages`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Tweak attribute routing docs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3398>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Adjust log level of authentication messages <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3396>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The level of "successfully authenticated token" messages was lowered to "info" and "wrong credentials" messages to "notice".

Successful authentication of a user is a normal operation and can happen many times within minutes or seconds in highly frequented websites and applications. More often than not, those messages don't require the attention of an administrator. To make it easier for filtering out those messages, the level should really be "info", since it is informational.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: #3229 Followup improve docs <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3270>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#3229 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3229>`_

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Add missing type declaration from Flow 8.3 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3369>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While branching 8.4, this type declaration got lost and should be added again.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Remove code related to PHP < 8.2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3329>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Code supporting backwards-compatibility with PHP versions earlier than 8.2 were removed, since the minimum required version for Flow is 8.2.

* Resolves: `#3085 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3085>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Benchmark basics <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3361>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This includes the first set of benchmarks, mainly for testing phpbench but also gives some sensible insights about the framework.

To run these some more plumbing is needed in BuildEssentials and also the developement distribution. As the benchmarks are not automated yet, nothing should happen with this code for now and it's safe to add.

Two of the new Testing\\RequestHandlers are used in benchmarks, the third is tentatively for functional tests so they all use the same basis. Using those needs to happen in BuildEssentials though.

* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Utility.Arrays``

`TASK: Introduce internal flow package key value object <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3338>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Upgrade instructions**

**Review instructions**

The concept around the flow package key might be dated, still major parts rely on this and we could use a little strict typing around ^^

Also possible refactoring in the future to a composer key might be easier if phpstan can tell us the difference between the types instead of refactoring one string to another.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Deprecate BaseTestCase functionalities <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3309>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow has a custom extension of php unit mocks, that comes from times of typo3.
Via the accessibly proxy it allows for calling even protected methods and access of protected properties.

The usage and retrieval ``BaseTestCase::getAccessibleMock()`` has been deprecated as one should not use this for testing. It will lead to a super high coupling of the tests to the super internal implementation which makes refactoring basically impossible (without rewriting major parts of the tests).
In Neos.Neos we see this very well because we are just removing these tests and rewriting them in behat for Neos 9 :D. 

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Declare `ValueAccessor` as experimental for now <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3332>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The feature introduce with https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3149 will be marked internal and experimental for now before the stable release of Flow 9.0

my reasons for this are
- the feature is not necessary scoped to arrays so ``Neos\\Utility\\Arrays`` might not be the best location
- copy further features from https://github.com/PackageFactory/extractor especially accessing deep array structures with good exceptions: https://github.com/PackageFactory/extractor/blob/`b8a135dbd95c3a51a26787063981ce2454b81dd6 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/b8a135dbd95c3a51a26787063981ce2454b81dd6>`_/src/Extractor.php#L335
    - or just take the code 1 to 1
- the naming ``ValueAccessor`` vs ``Extractor``
- ``Arrays::getAccessorByPath($array, 'path.bar')->int()`` vs ``ValueAccessor::for($array)['path']['bar']->int()``
    - im not sure about if we want to propagate the dot access pattern forever ;)
- we currently dont use the ``ValueAccessor`` ourselves in the code base and thus don't know yet if the api really makes things easier
- it doesn't support forgiving casting / access like ``stringOrIgnore``
- how to integrate this for validating configuration? https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3043


**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Utility.Arrays``

`TASK: Improve help text for doctrine:migrate <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3268>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most users probably didn't know that it is possible to use "prev" or "next" as version names for `./flow doctrine:migrate --version'. This is now documented as part of the help message and additionally the version alias "previous" is automatically converted to "prev" internally.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove code related to PHP < 8.2 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3329>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Code supporting backwards-compatibility with PHP versions earlier than 8.2 were removed, since the minimum required version for Flow is 8.2.

* Resolves: `#3085 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3085>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Refactor and optimize of session data storage <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3254>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before the SessionMetadata and SessionData was written with every request which caused network traffic, storage wear and also made race conditions much more likely when parallel requests changed session data. 

In total this can reduce the number of write operations on the Session caches by 80-90% removing storage and network load as those caches always are persistent and shared across clusters.

1. The improvements are on top of the Neos 9 already reducing the Flow_Session_Storage write load by not always storing the "lastVisitedNode" in the session.
2. The improvements mostly occur after sending the result "onShutdown" so this will not improve single requests but overall performance and number of parallel requests.

## 1. SessionMetadataStore / Flow_Session_MetaData

### Problem 

The session metadata (SessionId, StorageId, LastActivity .. ) is usually written at shutdown of every single request to the session metadata cache even when nothing changed. 

### Optimization 

This is optimized by the new setting ``Neos.Flow.session.updateMetadataThreshold`` that allows to configure the interval for updating the session metadata when nothing but the ``lastActivityTimestamp`` has changed. This removes lots of cache writes and avoids network traffic or storage wear. The session metadata is also converted to a single value object that combines SessionID, StorageID and lastActivityTimestamp.

## 2. SessionKeyValueStore / Flow_Session_Storage: 

### Problem

Session data is written to the Flow_Session_Storage cache once Session->putData is called. In case of flow this mostly is the Objects of scope ``@Flow\\Scope("session")`` that are stored on shutdown. Those objects are sometimes modified but during most requests nothing changes here and at the end of the request the same data is added to the cache again with another redundant cache write. 

### Optimization

The SessionDataStore optimizes this be keeping a hash of the value all previously read keys and avoids writes if the serialized content that is stored yields the same hash. That way only once session-data was actually changed the session objects are actually written to the cache. This also lessens the probability of some race conditions drastically that can occur when multiple parallel requests work on the same session.

The following redundant behavior was also removed:
- All session metadata records in the cache were previously tagged with ``session`` for iterating over them again. This is replaced by the ``retrieveAll`` method.
- The current authentication providers were always stored in the session data as ``Neos_Flow_Security_Accounts `` but were unused  
- Do we want to release this as 8.4 or 9.0? In case of 9.0 the SessionMetaData ValueObject will be adjusted to php 8.1 style.

Resolves: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/525

**Upgrade instructions**

**Review instructions**

Some questions during the review could be:
- Are there better ways to determine written objects are modified than comparing hashes of serialized values?: I did not find one.
- Should the comparison of written data with hashes of existing data be implemented in the cache frontend instead?: I think this would consume to much memory we have lots of cache items.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: `resource:clean` followup #1678 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3275>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

While reading the code, looking for improvement, it seems tedious that we ``getIdentifierByObject`` just to ``findByIdentifier`` a few lines later.

This happened due to a funny history of back and forth.

At first - 2014 - ``resource:clean`` was introduced looping over the PersistentResource: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/`8a1ce0fba6cb0bf301f971a6d7d5675e0c038d75 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/8a1ce0fba6cb0bf301f971a6d7d5675e0c038d75>`_

Then - 2016 - it was decided to save the sha1 and loop over them and retrieve the asset via ``findOneBySha1``: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/`879fba19f93d0a8628682698e57da9f1b58ad7d4 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/879fba19f93d0a8628682698e57da9f1b58ad7d4>`_

But that did not improve the situation as described in https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1678 and was removed again - 2019.

So in functionality we made a full round, im just here to followup on the last fix to restore the full state syntactically as it was once though of.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: *PLING PLING* phpstan level 3 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3261>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

~Requires: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3260~
~Requires: https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3217~

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Eel``

`TASK: Add type hints and minimal cleanup in object manager <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3308>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copied from https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2956

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Followup ValueAccessor <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3201>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

followup for `#3149 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3149>`_

see https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3149#discussion_r1376013861

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``Utility.Arrays``

`TASK: Ensure `IntegerConverter` converts DateTime to unix time stamp as int <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3277>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously the date was formatted to a unix time stamp, but in string format and not as desired as int.

This is required in preparation for https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3261

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Level up to phpstan 2 (Flow 9 adjustments) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3217>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The upgrade to phpstan level two was introduced via https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3264, this holds the flow 9 specific adjustments.

Related (phpstan level 1) https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3216

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Fix some nullable php doc types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3260>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I ran phpstan level 3 once on flow. And it seems we dont specifiy the nullable types correctly, but we document them in the doc string.
So i wrote a little helping script that would add the ``|null`` php doc annotation to all ``@param`` and ``@return`` types if we specify ``or NULL`` in the message. I carefully reviewed every change and made additionally some manual changes and corrected things. This is completely non breaking as only doc comments are being touched.

This will help for migrating to phpstan level 3.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor``

`TASK: Remove deprecated code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3220>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- remove deprecated ProtectedContext::whitelist
- remove deprecated Http Component legacy layer

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Change version constraints for Neos packages to self.version <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3256>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Kickstarter``

`TASK: Remove Bootstrap::MINIMUM_PHP_VERSION <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3227>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We declare these dependencies in composer and it should not be necessary to validate them at runtime.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use generics via @template instead of PHPSTORM_META <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3222>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the php universe evolved im gonna try https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2753 again ;)

Adds typings to:

\\Neos\\Flow\\ObjectManagement\\ObjectManagerInterface::get()

and

\\Neos\\Flow\\Core\\Bootstrap::getEarlyInstance()

by usage of the @template tag: https://phpstan.org/writing-php-code/phpdocs-basics#generics

This feature is supported by phpstorm, psalm and phpstan and also used widely in Neos 9

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove dead AfterInvocation related code <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3219>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was never properly implemented.


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Remove persistence clone magic <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3223>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removed the code that set ``Flow_Persistence_clone`` in entities or value objects when they were ``clone``d.

As dynamic properties are deprecated with PHP 8.2, this caused warnings and will eventually break.

Since this was (re)-introduced in Flow 2 via `90cb65827c1550e9144e9f83b9231b430c106660 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/commit/90cb65827c1550e9144e9f83b9231b430c106660>``_ to support custom backends in the geenric persistence layer of Flow, like the (now outdated) ``TYPO3.CouchDB`, we felt it is best to remove it.

**Upgrade instructions**

If you rely on this, you need to adjust your code. Chances are, if you still need this, you use the generic peristsnece layer, which is gone in Flow 7 aready (see https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/1769 and https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2262). So, you have other problems to solve, anyway…


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Migrate to PHPStan (adjustments in Flow 9) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3216>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3218 PHPStan level 1 was added to the whole Flow code base and CI for Flow 8. This upmerged change needs some adjustments to pass the CI in Flow 9

- fix types in code that was introduced with Flow 9
- fix types where neos depends on it (by correcting types and adding ``never``)
- adjust unit test as ``never`` cannot be doubled (eventually this will be fixed via: https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/phpunit/issues/5048)
- fix ci and style as neos 9 followup for https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3218


* Packages: ``Eel`` ``Flow`` ``FluidAdaptor`` ``Kickstarter`` ``Cache``

`TASK: Carefully fix psalm types across codebase to make it green ;) <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3199>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Update default settings for stored throwable dumps <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3213>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the default settings in YAML to 30 days of dump retention and a maximum of 10.000 files.

The class properties keep their ``0`` default, so that in case the class has been extended no change is enforced.

**Review instructions**

Needs upmerge of https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3187


`TASK: Use new Behat `FlowBootstrapTrait` <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3208>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust to behat adjustments see https://github.com/neos/behat/pull/35

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: document and deprecate flows internal isolated behat tests <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3173>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3170

The infrastructure is quite complex and not in relation to those two tests. That's why we declare it ready to be removed.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Support PHP never, null, false, and true as stand-alone types <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3071>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds functional tests to prove that Flow can handle PHP 8 stand-alone return types in AOP proxy class building.

Note that "null" is not supported yet by laminas-code, therefore the corresponding test is not active yet.

* Resolves: `#3027 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3027>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Use Laminas Code for proxy method rendering <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3064>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Flow now uses laminas/laminas-code for rendering proxy methods. The Dependency Injection Proxy Class Builder was refactored and the classes ProxyConstructor and ProxyMethod were replaced by new implementations called ProxyConstructorGenerator and ProxyMethodGenerator respectively.

* Resolves: `#3042 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3042>`_

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Clean up code in AOP and ObjectManagement <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3055>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change contains various code clean-ups which fell off with the preparation of a new bug fix for AOP.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Replace "adviced" by "advised" <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3054>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed a good old typo everywhere in Flow by replacing all occurrences of "adviced" by "advised".

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Clean up functional tests for AOP <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3053>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This also re-activates a functional test targeting PHP 7.1 features which was disabled at some point in history.

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Only add constructor injection code if needed <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3050>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The proxy class builder now skips code generation for constructor injection code if the given original class is prototype, no user-defined object configuration exists and all potentially autowired constructor arguments are prototypes or simple values. This change should result in a significantly less amount of proxy classes generated in most modern Flow projects.

resolves: `#3049 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/3049>`_
resolves: #1539

* Packages: ``Flow``

`TASK: Only add serialization entities code if needed <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/3047>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proxy classes created by the Dependency Injection Proxy Class Builder now only contain code related to serialization and deserialization of related entities if needed.

The code is only rendered if one of the following conditions is met:

- The class is annotated with Entity
- The class is annotated with Scope("session")

Despite the previous condition, the code will not be rendered if the following condition is true:

- The class already has a __sleep() method (we assume that the developer wants to take care of serialization themself)

As part of this change, the generated code related to serialization was slightly adjusted for stricter type handling.

related: `#1539 <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/1539>`_

**Review instructions**

- try to find an existing application which relies on serialization of related entities, for example a Flow application which uses ORM with relations or uses entities in a session scope.
- remove all caches and then access your application in a browser using the current Flow 9 branch (without this patch)
- create a backup of the Cache/Code/Flow_Object_Classes directory
- switch to a branch with this change, remove all caches and access the application again in a browser
- use a diff tool (e.g. Kaleidoscope) to compare both cache directories to see what is now different
- check if your application still works

* Packages: ``Flow``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/compare/8.3.13...9.0.0-beta19>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
